---
layout: post
published: true
title: Morally Compromised
category: covid vaccine
---
I cannot avoid the fact that many around me, even in the traditional world, are vaccinated. If that was not already a problem, they often are not in the slightest bit ashamed, or want to enter into conversations about the liceity of taking these experimental vaccines developed through immoral research on aborted fetal cell lines. It is hardly honest to do such a thing. Maybe they are having doubts, maybe they want to convince me that they made the right choice and that they would like me to do the same. Meanwhile, their decisions have often been based more on convenience than on the real value of the vaccine or on the actual moral character of the decision (the ramblings from certain residents of Casa Santa Marta imply that taking the vaccine might even be a morally praiseworthy action).

## What are we unvaccinated to do before these?
I think that we have to we willing to tell them that their decision was mistaken. Do we have principles? Do we have good reason to doubt the efficacy and the safety of these vaccines? Should we be silent before a transgression against prudence? Should we fail to say anything in favor of the babies whose organs are still being harvested and used by such companies for various types of research? No, we should speak openly and call these people to conversion. In this, we can be more pastoral than anyone of the vaccinated camp who are trying to quiet their conscience by convincing us they did the right thing. This is why women who have had abortions fly into wild rage before pro-life activists. They are fighting the feeling of guilt and horror at what they have done. On a lesser level, so too, our friends and relatives are fighting the sense of guilt they have at betraying the pro-life movement. They have even betrayed us by submitting themselves not too science, but to the unjust impositions of unjust regimes. They have enabled the violation of justice by acting out of their own convenience, and they thus enter into a collective mindset that would encourage everyone to do the same, as if this would somehow quiet their consciences. It will not, and service to these people means honesty and frankness.

## To the Vaccinated
I invite you to examine your conscience. Did you really have medical necessity to do what you did? Did you really need to fail in your witness to the pro-life cause? Did you really have to give in to unjust mandates soley for your own convenience or at the unjust request of your ecclesiastical superior or employer? If so, then repent. Make a public declaration of your error and help stop the violation of basic human rights and the rights of the unborn. You have been a cause of scandal to others, so you must all the more try to witness to the truth. Stop rationalizing and stop trying to justify your behavoir and encourage others to do the same! By doing this, you only harden your own conscience and become guilty of counseling others to make the same mistake that you made. Do penance and turn from your sins! If you do not, what sort of compromise will you accept next?
