---
layout: post
published: true
title: Pagliarani and the two ways
category: SSPX TC
---
From my awareness of the traditional movement in 2001, I had been always very negative about the SPPX and the consecrations of Lefebvre. This is partly due to the more extreme nature of the priests and faithful in the US. But also because of a deep love for even the institutional church that I learned from my father. Entering the monastery on the day that Summorum Pontificum went into effect, I have always benefitted from the Paix Liturgique that Benedict instituted in my religious and priestly life. But the present pontificate and especially Traditionis Custodes changed all of that. 
Life sometimes presents very difficult practical choices that may excuse to some degree the responsibility of those involved. It would seem that the pressure of the situation in 1988 put Monsignor Lefebvre in such a position.

Pagliarani does well in pointing out the condemnation in Ecclesia Dei. But he does not analyze it as I do. It seems, rather to me, that the error is to connect the practical question of the consecrations with theological positions. I do not think that it was an act of theological resistance, so much of practical resistance. To turn it into a defence of a view of tradition (whether to condemn or to approve) seems to me to err in making something more than it was. This error seems to be committed by JPII and Pagliarani.

True, there is a lot of context and certainly questions around the context were tied up with why he decided to go ahead with the consecrations, but the actual consecration of a bishop(s) is a practical necessity in the life of the Church, just as childbearing is.

There are problematic phrases that Pagliarani employs that I think are in principle erroneous: "we have the worship of the Earth". I have looked a lot at the question of Pachamamma, etc, and have never been able to conclude that there is any real worship--lots of bad and unclear things, but actual worship of the earth? Where and when? He also states that "They are cut off from the Tradition that is rooted in the Apostles and in Divine Revelation, and which is itself a source of Revelation." Well, if this is true objectively, then it is not the Catholic church. They may neglect or distort, or ignore, but to be cut off, as an institution, is to cease to be the visible Catholic Church. This has to be rejected as contrary to the guarantees of Our Lord in the Gospel.

He also argues that the Mass constituted the essence of the council, or that religious freedom and the dignity of man were the essence of the council. Maybe he would be right to say that they represent the "spirit" of the Council. But there are plenty of voices in the church who are objecting to this spirit now as not really the reality of the Council. He even goes so far as to say that "The real Second Vatican Council, it must be rejected." I think this cannot be. It can be relativized, clarified, even, perhaps, amended or corrected, but not rejected. Not as such, not without denying the legitimacy of the public institution of the Church.

He also proposes two separate and opposed paths. These two ways do not sufficiently express the human reality of the Church and the ability to work within it despite the apparent contradiction with the supposed law of the Church. Perhaps one of the problems with Lefrebvre was precisely his inability to work within the church as a diplomat. Maybe it was not possible for him, or the result would have been the same. Maybe it was possible and the result for the Society and the Church would have been something much better than if he had done the consecrations without permission. If this is the case (and certainly the power of divine grace could make it a possibility) then we must hesitate to allow that it was an act inspired by the Holy Spirit and a sign of his sanctity. 

Pagliarani wants to make it out as if there is a division between obedience which implies abandoning the Tradition, and disobedience and faithfulness to Tradition. Meanwhile, there have already been meetings at the highest levels that are implying that Ecclesia Dei communities might be just fine, in the end. It is this tendency to make extremes and set one's choice between these that is typical of: children, because they lack judgement and experience; idiots, because they lack nuance; and of ideologues, because they hold on too firmly to singular principles and fail to sythesize.

I think that those of us of the Tradition in the Church need to hold fast, not with papalotry or even ultramonanism (which had its day, but which we should let die, pace de Mattei). We must have courage and respect and a bit of diplomacy. To God, as our Protector and guide, we can say: "Behold, he will slay me; I have no hope: Nevertheless I will maintain my ways before him." (Job 13:15) This is precisely the attitude of the saints in the moment of trial and crisis.
